# Notes 8/19/2019

### Types of Machine learning Systems
Supervised Learning: training data contains desired solutions or labels<br/>
* Classification and Regression <br/>

Unsupervised Learning: training data is unlabeled
* Clustering and Dimensional Reduction
* identify clusters or groups, then be able this to new data 
#### Types of Unsupervised Learning
1. K-means clustering (k is the number of clusters)
    * fix the value of k (deciding k- elbow point: where an increase with k there isn't much of a change in the mean distance from the center)
    * guess random k locations
    * repeat until convergence (mean is close to centroid of cluster)
        * E-step: compute the distances between each k-value to each data point and assign points to clusters based on Euclidean distance.
        * M-step compute the mean of all the points in the cluster and move k to the mean
    * can use K-nearest neighbors to add new point (see the k closest neighbors to see what cluster, then possibly run k-means again)
2. Principal component analysis (dimensional reduction)
    * meaningfully reduce the dimensions (ie. combine columns) it improves speed
    * a type of pre-processing
3. Deep Neural Networks (ie. facial recognition)

### Reinforcement Learning
Training Data does not contain target output but instead contains some possible output together with a measure of how good that output is.<br/>
Improving based on previous experiences.

### Classification vs. Regression
Classification tries to predict label.
Linear regression, trying to predict a value.

#### Linear Regression
Compute the line (linear function) with the minimum distance from all points.  Use the line to predict future values.

#### Logistic Regression
Used to estimate the probability that an instance belongs to a particular class.<br/>
Often used to do classification

### Overfitting and Underfitting
Underfitting- not close enough for the model. <br/>
Overfitting, too close to the data set- not flexible.

### Bias-Variance Tradeoff



